Ice1724
=======

### From the ALSA wiki

Jump to: [navigation](#mw-head), [search](#p-search)

Contents
--------

-   [1 Alsa driver ice1724](#Alsa_driver_ice1724)
-   [2 User experience](#User_experience)
    -   [2.1 M-Audio Revolution 5.1 (Fedora Core
        6)](#M-Audio_Revolution_5.1_.28Fedora_Core_6.29)
    -   [2.2 ESI Juli@ PCI (Gentoo 1.2006, GNU/Debian 4.0, Fedora Core
        6)](#ESI_Juli.40_PCI_.28Gentoo_1.2006.2C_GNU.2FDebian_4.0.2C_Fedora_Core_6.29)
    -   [2.3 Terratec Aureon Space 7.1 (Mandrake
        9.2)](#Terratec_Aureon_Space_7.1_.28Mandrake_9.2.29)
    -   [2.4 Terratec Aureon 7.1 Space
        (Debian)](#Terratec_Aureon_7.1_Space_.28Debian.29)
    -   [2.5 Aureon Space 7.1
        (slackware)](#Aureon_Space_7.1_.28slackware.29)
    -   [2.6 Chaintech AV-710 (Mandrake
        9.2)](#Chaintech_AV-710_.28Mandrake_9.2.29)
    -   [2.7 M-Audio Revolution 7.1 (Arch
        Linux)](#M-Audio_Revolution_7.1_.28Arch_Linux.29)
    -   [2.8 M-Audio Revolution 7.1 (Gentoo, Ubuntu
        6.06)](#M-Audio_Revolution_7.1_.28Gentoo.2C_Ubuntu_6.06.29)
    -   [2.9 M-Audio Revolution 7.1 (Ubuntu
        8.04)](#M-Audio_Revolution_7.1_.28Ubuntu_8.04.29)
    -   [2.10 M-Audio Delta Audiophile
        192](#M-Audio_Delta_Audiophile_192)
    -   [2.11 M-Audio Revolution 5.1 (Ubuntu 6.10 Edgy
        Eft)](#M-Audio_Revolution_5.1_.28Ubuntu_6.10_Edgy_Eft.29)
    -   [2.12 ESI MAYA44 PCI](#ESI_MAYA44_PCI)
    -   [2.13 ESI DSP 2000, ESI ESP 1010](#ESI_DSP_2000.2C_ESI_ESP_1010)
    -   [2.14 Dynex DX-SC51](#Dynex_DX-SC51)

-   [3 External links](#External_links)

Alsa driver ice1724
-------------------

-   Terratec Aureon Space 7.1
-   Terratec Aureon Sky/Fun 5.1
-   M-Audio Revolution 5.1
-   M-Audio Revolution 7.1
-   M-Audio Audiophile 192 (Experimental Output support in HG)
-   Gainward Hollywood@Home 2Go 7.1 (USB, Uses the Via Envy 24 HT-S,
    working?)
-   Hercules Fortissimo 4 (optical out seems to work fine with 1st
    .asoundrc from this page)
-   Hercules Gamesurround Fortissimo IV 7.1
-   ESI Juli@ PCI. Working with Alsa 1.0.10rc2 but there is no control
    to decrease the output level in alsamixer. Maximum volume!!
-   ESI MAYA44 PCI - The card should be supported by alsa in a few
    months.

Support \* Chaintech AV-710

-   Onkyo SE-200PCI

User experience
---------------

### M-Audio Revolution 5.1 (Fedora Core 6)

Works great, except for headphone output (but just use the normal two
channel output). For simple 2 channel output you shouldn't have to do
much besides tweak the volume and plug the speakers into the correct
output jack (ringed in green; see
[http://seehuhn.de/pages/revolution](http://seehuhn.de/pages/revolution)
for detailed diagrams.

For 5.1 and spdif usage, you may want to see the
[.asoundrc](http://ace.pastey.net/64611) mentioned in a [recent mailing
list post](http://www.nabble.com/noise-only-t3718152.html).

Remember to set the volume in alsamixer before searching for problems,
as almost every feature Just Works. An "alsactl restore" in
/etc/rc.local might be needed for the left channel volume problem.

### ESI Juli@ PCI (Gentoo 1.2006, GNU/Debian 4.0, Fedora Core 6)

Doesn't work well or has huge problems. Soundcard is regonized by both
OSes but doing "alsaconf" causes kernel panic. On Gentoo it's able to be
configured in a such way accidentally that alsasound process will cause
kernel panic when shutting down system so you are never able to close
computer cleanly unless that daemon is not started at all. You might be
able to get sound but no recording is possible. No MIDI either. You can
use KMix once for a while to replace alsasound on gentoo. Debian doesn't
give sound out at all. Juli@ works somewhat allright when using Fedora
Core 6.
-[AnXa](?title=User:AnXa&action=edit&redlink=1 "User:AnXa (page does not exist)")
07:29, 9 February 2007 (EST)

- Analog I/O works pretty well here on Gentoo since ALSA 1.0.12, I just
had some kernel oopses with snd-seq-\* when unloading the drivers. Those
seem to be solved in kernel 2.6.20's 1.0.14rc1
--[Gimpel](?title=User:Gimpel&action=edit&redlink=1 "User:Gimpel (page does not exist)")
03:25, 9 February 2007 (EST)

I have tried the audiophile 192 soundcard and have had nothing but
trouble... so much so that I am taking it back tomorrow. I have
installed JackLab and got nothing but a distorted signal. It was
horrible. I then installed Fedora 6. I can't remember if I heard
anything or distortion. In any event I installed 64Studio tonight. Jack
starts fine, but hydrogen hung the UI. It was like I was on windows. I
was hoping that someone had a driver that worked. I am not smart enough
to write my own...

-The ESI juli@ works very well using optical s/pdif (I've not tried
analogue output). I use kernel 2.6.25 vanilla on gentoo. Here my
.asoundrc to use s/pdif (don't hesitate to correct it if there's
something wrong).

` defaults.pcm.rate_converter "samplerate_best"`

pcm.!default {

      type plug
      slave.pcm {
          type dmix
          ipc_key 1478
          slave {
              pcm "hw:0,1"
              format S32_LE
              period_time 0 
              period_size 1024 #useful if you ear scratch or have a crappy sound (try other values if it doesn't work)
              buffer_size 8192 #useful if you ear scratch or have a crappy sound (try other values if it doesn't work)
              rate 96000 #set to 44100 or other.

} } }

\

### Terratec Aureon Space 7.1 (Mandrake 9.2)

Mandrake 9.2 detects and correctly configures this card (Space 7.1) upon
a fresh installation, although the volume/mixer settings are not very
loud by default. Mandrake 9.2 uses alsa version 0.9.6. However, when
installing the card in an installed system, the card is not detected
when a scan is done for new hardware and I found it impossible to get it
to work correctly without completely re-installing mandrake 9.2 (which I
had to do anyway). NB, the stereo sound output is actually plug 4 from
the fibre connectors (Front Stereo).

* * * * *

Problems: the playing frequency seems to be different from the common
sample frequency, causing the music to sound strangely high pitched!
Also clicks can be heard when playing videos, since they are
synchronised every few seconds.

*After installing the 1.0.0-pre2/pre1 drivers and utilities, I was able
to use [alsamixer](/Alsamixer "Alsamixer") to set the output frequency
to 44100 Hz. This solves the problem mostly, but I think there are quite
some issues to resolve before all programs will simply workÂ ;-)*

* * * * *

TODO: more configuration details.

`/etc/modules.conf` ` `

    alias sound-slot-0 snd-ice1724
    above snd-ice1724 snd-pcm-oss

I don't know if more configuration details can be found or are of
influence.

### Terratec Aureon 7.1 Space (Debian)

Working [.asoundrc](/.asoundrc ".asoundrc") for AC3, DTS and dmix
through spdif. Using debian and alsa version 1.0.1 with IC Ensemble Inc
ICE1724 [Envy24HT] (rev 01)

` `

    pcm.spacespdifdmix {
            type dmix
            ipc_key 83484784
            slave {
                    pcm "hw:0,1"
                    format S32_LE
                    rate 44100
            }
    }

    pcm.spacespdif {
            type plug
            slave {
                    pcm spacespdifdmix
            }
    }

    pcm.!default {
            type plug
            slave {
                    pcm spacespdifdmix
            }
    }

    # For ogle

    pcm.!spdif {
            type plug
            slave {
                    pcm "hw:0,1"
                    format S32_LE
            }
    }

    # For mplayer, ao (mplayer -ac hwac3, -ao alsa9:mplayer)
    # For vlc, use mplayer as alsa device

    pcm.!iec958 {
            type plug
            slave {
                    pcm "hw:0,1"
                    format S32_LE
            }
    }

    pcm.mplayer {
            type plug
            slave {
                    pcm "hw:0,1"
                    format S32_LE
            }
    }

### Aureon Space 7.1 (slackware)

Lately I have been getting some questions regarding the digital out
(spdif) of the Aureon Space 7.1. In order to help some of the people who
want to play their audio through the spdif interface I have added some
info below. Currently this is only part 1. There will be a part 2 as
soon as I can get my kde cvs properly compiled (currently kdelibs still
gives me errors when compiling so it might take some days).

Part 1: For my own system (Slackware current) I have used the alsa cvs
tree. As far as I know not much or nothing has changed forthe ice1724
driver between versions so it should also be Ok to use the main version
(but I not 100% sure). I had a few problems when compiling every driver
by using a simple ./configure. It seems that usbaudio doesn't compile
properly so it is better to use the compile instructions that are
specified in the docs on the site. In short:

` `

    alsa-driver:
        ./configure --with-cards=ice1724 --with-sequencer=yes
        make
        make install

    alsa-utils:
        ./configure
        make
        make install

Since I use hotplug I won't have to bother with figuring out which
modules to load. Here's my list that get's loaded after a fresh reboot:

` `

    Module                  Size  Used by    Not tainted
    tuner                  10920   1  (autoclean)
    tda9887                 3104   1  (autoclean)
    tvaudio                14248   0  (autoclean) (unused)
    bttv                   96192   0  (unused)
    videodev                6592   2  [bttv]
    snd-ice1724            23908   2 
    snd-ice17xx-ak4xxx      1552   0  [snd-ice1724]
    snd-pcm                63172   1  [snd-ice1724]
    snd-page-alloc          6516   0  [snd-pcm]
    snd-timer              14980   0  [snd-pcm]
    snd-ac97-codec         48556   0  [snd-ice1724]
    snd-mpu401-uart         3376   0  [snd-ice1724]
    snd-rawmidi            14048   0  [snd-mpu401-uart]
    snd-seq-device          4400   0  [snd-rawmidi]
    snd-ak4xxx-adda         3932   0  [snd-ice1724 snd-ice17xx-ak4xxx]
    snd                    32612   1  [snd-ice1724 snd-pcm snd-timer \
     snd-ac97-codec snd-mpu401-uart snd-rawmidi snd-seq-device snd-ak4xxx-adda]
    soundcore               3844   0  [bttv snd]

Not all modules might be related to the Aureon Space since I also have a
Pinnacle PCTV Rave card. Also notice that the oss compatibility modules
are not loaded. So far I have not needed them and maybe they are not
needed at all (We'll know once I get to part 2). Now we will have to
create a .asoundrc. This is important because otherwise the sound will
only be routed through the analog output and not through the spdif. For
some of the players you can also add a device on the commandline so you
can route it to the spdif interface that way but I find it easier when
this is done by default. Add the following info to this file (and create
the file in your home dir):

` `

    pcm.ice1724 {
        type hw
        card 0
    }

    ctl.ice1724 {
        type hw
        card 0
    }

    pcm.!default {
        type plug
        slave.pcm "spdif"
    }

That's all. When I try to play an mp3 with mpg123 for example the sound
is nicely routed through the spdif interface instead of the analog
output:

` `

    mpg123 -o alsa /my_mp3.mp3

You might have noticed that the sound doesn't have to be unmuted first.
It seems that this is only needed for analog output. Well, that's all
for now.

*Dennis van der Meer*

* * * * *

### Chaintech AV-710 (Mandrake 9.2)

I also got this driver working on my Chaintech AV-710 which uses the
Envy24HT-S chipset. I also have Mandrake 9.2, but I upgraded alsa to the
latest 1.0.1 version before trying to get the card working.

I had some problems with not understanding what all the various switches
in alsamixer do, but finally got stereo out working by setting the HW
and HW1 switches to PCM Out (HW will set left channel volume, HW1 sets
right channel volume).

After that, I created the .asoundrc as Dennis suggests above, restarted
xine, plugged in the optical cable into my reciever, and voila, spdif
was working. I also had a problem with the left channel being muted, but
that was fixed by setting IEC958 switch in alsamixer to PCMOut (my right
switch was already set to PCM Out).

The only problem then was that xine wasn't passing AC3 through, when I
enabled the a52\_pass\_through flag on a recording with ac3, I didn't
get any volume. Xine also has a setting where you can control which
channel that AC3 gets passed to and its set by default to
IEC958:AES0=0x6,AES1... . On my old SB Live Value, if I set that option
to default, I would hear pops and clicks on my receiver. So I tried the
same thing with this sound card, and as soon as I started up xine, it
was playing the movie and my receiver was showing Dolby Digital.

Oh, also, for AC3 passthrough, I had to do some weird things with
alsaconf, my final /etc/modules.conf turned out to be

` `

    # --- BEGIN: Generated by ALSACONF, do not edit. ---
    # --- ALSACONF verion 1.0.1 ---
    alias char-major-116 snd
    alias char-major-14 soundcore
    alias sound-service-0-0 snd-mixer-oss
    alias sound-service-0-1 snd-seq-oss
    alias sound-service-0-3 snd-pcm-oss
    alias sound-service-0-8 snd-seq-oss
    alias sound-service-0-12 snd-pcm-oss
    options snd  device_mode=0666
    alias snd-card-0 snd-*** info [liblow.c(320)]:
    alias sound-slot-0 snd-ice1724
    # --- END: Generated by ALSACONF, do not edit. ---
    above snd-ice1724 snd-pcm-oss

This allows AC3 to work, but now I can't hear the system sounds, and
none of the games make sound. If anyone knows how to fix this, I would
appreciate it.

*DaniilMag*

\
 I got this card to work in Gentoo Linux, kernel 2.6.31, with ALSA
1.0.20, using the higher quality Wolfson DAC behind the rear-surround
port. The results of my research are posted
[here](http://www.head-fi.org/forums/f46/chaintech-av-710-av710-alsa-asound-state-wolfson-dac-465624/).
*[cemysce](?title=User:Cemysce&action=edit&redlink=1 "User:Cemysce (page does not exist)")*

\

* * * * *

### M-Audio Revolution 7.1 (Arch Linux)

Simplified version of [.asoundrc](/.asoundrc ".asoundrc") recommended
above (for AC3, DTS, and dmix through spdif). Sample rates no longer
need to be specified since everything from 8 - 44 kHz is enabled by
changes to ALSA 1.0.10. The S32\_LE format has apparently been made the
default for non-dmix type outputs, and no longer needs to be specified.

Tested on Arch Linux using ALSA 1.0.10 and an M-Audio Revolution 7.1
sound card.

` `

    # hw:0,1 designates the Digital Coaxial Output
    # S32_LE is the only format supported by the driver
    # period_time, period_size, and buffer_size are needed to make aRts not stutter. Increase buffer_size if stuttering persists.
    pcm.spdifdmix {
        type dmix
        ipc_key 1024
        slave {
            pcm "hw:0,1"
            format S32_LE
            period_time 0
            period_size 1024
            buffer_size 4096
        }
    }

    # default ALSA route for software support of multiple sound streams
    pcm.!default {
        type plug
        slave.pcm spdifdmix
    }

    # Ogle
    pcm.!spdif {
        type plug
        slave.pcm "hw:0,1"
    }

    # mplayer -ac hwac3
    pcm.!iec958 {
        type plug
        slave.pcm "hw:0,1"
    }

* * * * *

Just some cut and paste from a mailinglist posting concerning the
ICE1724 Controls by Takashi Iwai: ` `

    =================== controls list =======================
    > numid=1, iface=CARD,name='ICE1724 EEPROM'

    EEPROM contents.  not for mixer.

    > numid=2, iface=MIXER,name='Multi Track Internal Clock'

    the internal clock of the board.
    note that ice1724 has a single rate for all channels.

    > numid=3, iface=MIXER,name='Multi Track Rate Locking'

    the rate locking - allow each app to set the rate or use
    the fixed rate.

    > numid=4, iface=MIXER,name='Multi Track Rate Reset'

    reset the rate to the default value at each time the PCM is closed.
    (the default value is the last internal clock rate.)

    > > numid=5, iface=MIXER,name='H/W Playback Route'
    > numid=6, iface=MIXER,name='H/W Playback Route',index=1
    > ...
    > numid=12,iface=MIXER,name='H/W Playback Route',index=7

    the analog output routing for each channel.  they're enum.

    > numid=13,iface=MIXER,name='Multi Track Peak'

    peak meter.  read only.

    > numid=14,iface=MIXER,name='IEC958 Playback Route'
    > numid=15,iface=MIXER,name='IEC958 Playback Route',index=1

    spdif output routing (left/right).  the enum valus.

    > numid=16,iface=MIXER,name='IEC958 Output Switch'

    turn on/off spdif output.

    > numid=17,iface=PCM,name='IEC958 Playback Default',device=1

    spdif status bits.  32bit long.

    > numid=18,iface=MIXER,name='IEC958 Playback Con Mask',device=1
    > numid=19,iface=MIXER,name='IEC958 Playback Pro Mask',device=1

    available spdif status bit mask for consumer and professional modes.

    > numid=20,iface=MIXER,name='DAC Volume'
    > numid=21,iface=MIXER,name='DAC Volume',index=1
    > ...
    > numid=27,iface=MIXER,name='DAC Volume',index=7

    DAC = digital-analog-converter
    for each analog output channel.

    > numid=28,iface=MIXER,name='Master Playback Volume'

    master playback volume for analog outputs.

    > numid=29,iface=MIXER,name='ADC Volume'
    > numid=30,iface=MIXER,name='ADC Volume',index=1

    ADC = analog-digital-converter
    for each analog input channel.

    > numid=31,iface=MIXER,name='Capture Route'

    the recording source selection.   the enum values.

* * * * *

Asound config to get all M-Audio Revolution 7.1 out channels
operational:

` `

    #---------------------------------------------

    ctl.!default {
            type hw
            card 1
    }

    #---------------------------------------------

    pcm.envy_1
    {
            type plug
            slave.pcm {
                    type hw
                    card 1
                    device 0
                    subdevice 0
            }
    }

    ctl.envy_1
    {
            type hw
            card 1
    }

    pcm.envy_2
    {
            type plug
            slave.pcm {
                    type hw
                    card 1
                    device 2
                    subdevice 0
            }
    }

    pcm.envy_3
    {
            type plug
            slave.pcm {
                    type hw
                    card 1
                    device 2
                    subdevice 1
            }
    }

    pcm.envy_4
    {
            type plug
            slave.pcm {
                    type hw
                    card 1
                    device 2
                    subdevice 2
            }
    }

    pcm.envy_spdif
    {
            type plug
            slave.pcm {
                    type hw
                    card 1
                    device 1
                    subdevice 0
            }
    }

    #---------------------------------------------

* * * * *

My (=Andreas Bulling) [.asoundrc](/.asoundrc ".asoundrc") for stereo -\>
surround-like output for example with xmms etc. Just type in "duplicate"
under "Audio device" in xmms's "Alsa Driver configuration". With the
newest 2.6.9 kernel for the first time even the Center, LFE, Front and
Rear channels work as expected - thanks to the developersÂ ;)

` `

    pcm.!default {
        type plug
        slave ice1724_S32_LE;
    }

    pcm.duplicate {
            type plug
            slave.pcm "surround51"
            slave.channels 6
            route_policy duplicate
    }

    pcm_slave.ice1724_S32_LE {
            pcm surround51;
            format S32_LE;
    }

\

### M-Audio Revolution 7.1 (Gentoo, Ubuntu 6.06)

Card works in Ubuntu 6.06 right out of the box, and in Gentoo with
standard configuration procedures.

Needed to add the following plugin to .asoundrc to get spdif
pass-through working in Xine (not tested in mplayer):

` `

    pcm.!iec958 {
        type plug
        slave.pcm "hw:0,1"
    }

### M-Audio Revolution 7.1 (Ubuntu 8.04)

.asoundrc to fix surround71 bindings, and duplicate front channel
through all other channels in a stereo configuration by default:

` `

    # 8 channel dmix
    pcm.!surround71 {
        type dmix
        ipc_key 1024
        ipc_key_add_uid false
        ipc_perm 0660
        slave {
            pcm "hw:0,0"
            rate 48000
            channels 8
            period_time 0
            period_size 1024
            buffer_time 0
            # prevent stutter at 48000
            buffer_size 8192
            # alternately lower to 44100 and keep the buffer low
            #rate 44100
            #buffer_size 5120
        }
        bindings {
            0 1   # front left
            1 0   # front right
            2 6   # rear left
            3 7   # rear right
            4 2   # center
            5 3   # lfe
            6 4   # side left
            7 5   # side right
        }
    }
    # perform upmixing
    pcm.ch71dup {
        type route
        slave.pcm surround71
        slave.channels 8
        ttable {
            0.0 1     # front right
            1.1 1     # front left
            0.2 1     # rear left
            1.3 1     # rear right
            0.4 0.5   # right channel to centre 0.5 gain
            1.4 0.5   # left channel to centre 0.5 gain
            0.5 0.5   # right channel to lfe 0.5 gain
            1.5 0.5   # left channel to lfe 0.5 gain
            0.6 1     # side left
            1.7 1     # side right
        }
    }
    pcm.duplex {
        type asym
        playback.pcm "ch71dup" # upmix first
        capture.pcm "hw:0"
    }
    # change default device
    pcm.!default {
        type plug
        slave.pcm "duplex"
    }
    # for aoss
    pcm.dsp "duplex"
    pcm.dsp1 "duplex"

### M-Audio Delta Audiophile 192

Mixer Control Elements from M-Audio Delta Audiophile 192

` `

    numid=1,iface=CARD,name='ICE1724 EEPROM'
    numid=14,iface=MIXER,name='PCM Playback Volume'
    numid=8,iface=MIXER,name='IEC958 Playback Route'
    numid=9,iface=MIXER,name='IEC958 Playback Route',index=1
    numid=10,iface=MIXER,name='IEC958 Output Switch'
    numid=15,iface=MIXER,name='Deemphasis'
    numid=5,iface=MIXER,name='H/W Playback Route'
    numid=6,iface=MIXER,name='H/W Playback Route',index=1
    numid=2,iface=MIXER,name='Multi Track Internal Clock'
    numid=7,iface=MIXER,name='Multi Track Peak'
    numid=3,iface=MIXER,name='Multi Track Rate Locking'
    numid=4,iface=MIXER,name='Multi Track Rate Reset'
    numid=12,iface=PCM,name='IEC958 Playback Con Mask',device=1
    numid=11,iface=PCM,name='IEC958 Playback Default',device=1
    numid=13,iface=PCM,name='IEC958 Playback Pro Mask',device=1

\~/.asoundrc to enable spdif output (works with Ubuntu 8.04) ` `

    pcm.ice1724 {
        type hw
        card 0
    }
    ctl.ice1724 {
        type hw
        card 0
    }
    pcm.!default {
        type plug
        slave.pcm "spdif"
    }

### M-Audio Revolution 5.1 (Ubuntu 6.10 Edgy Eft)

Upgrade to latest alsa, and use the following tailor made \~/.asoundrc
for this card ` `

    # 6 channel dmix:
    pcm.dmix6 {
        type dmix
           ipc_key 1024
           ipc_key_add_uid false
           ipc_perm 0660
           slave {
                   pcm "hw:0,0"
                   rate 48000
                   channels 6
                   period_time 0
                   period_size 1024
                   buffer_time 0
                   buffer_size 5120
           }
        }
    # upmixing: 
    pcm.ch51dup {
           type route
           slave.pcm dmix6
           slave.channels 6
           ttable.0.0 1
           ttable.1.1 1
           ttable.0.2 1
           ttable.1.3 1
           ttable.0.4 0.5
           ttable.1.4 0.5
           ttable.0.5 0.5
           ttable.1.5 0.5
      }
    pcm.duplex {
        type asym
        playback.pcm "ch51dup" # upmix first
        capture.pcm "hw:0"
    }
    # change default device:
    pcm.!default {
        type plug 
        slave.pcm "duplex"
    }
    # for aoss
    pcm.dsp "duplex"
    pcm.dsp1 "duplex"

For indepth information on how to configure this card, [check this
out](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2387139&postcount=25).

### ESI MAYA44 PCI

Support for the ESI MAYA44 PCI card is currently under development. The
card should be supported by alsa in a few months. (If some would like to
work on drivers for this card, please contact me at
schmidt@datenaura.com - I have a spare one to lend. -Christian.)

It looks like a driver has been written for this, but has not been
merged into git as it has not been signed off by the developer according
to the [alsa-devel mailing
list](http://mailman.alsa-project.org/pipermail/alsa-devel/2008-May/007709.html).
The project still seems to be active (August 2008) and is avaliable
through the [ubuntu
forums](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=868227).

### ESI DSP 2000, ESI ESP 1010

According to [a post in the JackLab support
forum](http://forum.jacklab.net/viewtopic.php?p=621&sid=78be02fa31996bff599a482a74b09791)
both the ESI DSP 2000 and the [ESI ESP
1010](http://www.esi-audio.de/produkte/esp1010/) should work. The former
(DSP) is fully supported, the latter (ESP) lacks software controls for
headphone volume and microphone preamps, therefore some channels are not
useable.

### Dynex DX-SC51

Linux seems to really like this card. AC3 and DTS passthrough out the
optical jack works perfectly, and I can dump stereo audio into it no
problem. I get full 5.1 sound out of the analog jacks too. Haven't tried
capture or the headphone jack, mainly because I bought this card
specifically for an HTPC.

External links
--------------

-   [Alsa Driver Page, M Audio Revolution
    7.1](http://www.alsa-project.org/alsa-doc/doc-php/template.php?company=Midiman%2FMAudio&card=Revolution+7.1.&chip=ICE1724+%28Envy24HT%29&module=ice1724)
-   [Alsa Driver Page, Terratec Aureon 7.1
    Space](http://www.alsa-project.org/alsa-doc/doc-php/template.php?company=Terratec&card=Aureon+7.1+Space&chip=Envy24HT&module=ice1724)
-   [envy24ht Chip info from
    VIA](http://www.via.com.tw/en/products/audio/controllers/envy24ht/)

*[Simon Oosthoek](/User:SimonOosthoek "User:SimonOosthoek")*, *[Andreas
Bulling](/User:AndreasBulling "User:AndreasBulling")*

Retrieved from
"[http://alsa.opensrc.org/Ice1724](http://alsa.opensrc.org/Ice1724)"

[Category](/Special:Categories "Special:Categories"): [ALSA
modules](/Category:ALSA_modules "Category:ALSA modules")

