Linux
=====

### From the ALSA wiki

Jump to: [navigation](#mw-head), [search](#p-search)

What is **Linux**?
------------------

****Linux**** is an **operating system ("OS")** for PCs and other types
of computer. Linux is *"libre"* software meaning its program design
(**source code**) ***is freely available for anyone to use, copy,
modify, sell, rent or publish***. This makes Linux fundamentally
different from the Microsoft Windows operating system, which does not
give its users any of these freedoms. Several years ago Linux used to be
quite difficult to use but there are now versions of Linux with
easy-to-use graphical user interfaces and a huge amount of software
ranging from office-productivity software to complex scientific
software.

Linux uses the **[ALSA](/ALSA "ALSA")** sound system to provide support
for multimedia applications such as video players
(*[mplayer](/Mplayer "Mplayer"),
[xine](?title=Xine&action=edit&redlink=1 "Xine (page does not exist)"),
...*), audio editors (*[Audacity](/Audacity "Audacity"), ...*) and music
programs (*[Rosegarden](/Rosegarden "Rosegarden"),
[MuSe](?title=MuSe&action=edit&redlink=1 "MuSe (page does not exist)"),...*).
This Wiki has many pages about ALSA; please see the contents page at
[AlsaOpensrcOrg](/AlsaOpensrcOrg "AlsaOpensrcOrg") for an overview.

More information about Linux is available at Linux Online
[http://www.linux.org/](http://www.linux.org/).

* * * * *

*Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds, Microsoft and
Windows are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation.*

Retrieved from
"[http://alsa.opensrc.org/Linux](http://alsa.opensrc.org/Linux)"

[Category](/Special:Categories "Special:Categories"):
[Glossary](/Category:Glossary "Category:Glossary")

